30th April.
The Cascade of css.
 Sometimes we may have rules that conflicts with other and we ended with some unexpected results.
  like the paragraphs needed to be blue instade of being red so it's kidda frustrating. One exception to this is the default styles that are provided by a browser.
  so it it ends upp with some unexpect4d behaviorur like this this it's either because  of these default styles,not underastanding hoe property works ,or =not understanding this litte called Cascade.

  The Cascade is what determines which rules actually get applied to our html.
    Therefore here are the three factrorsb which will hopefully help us avoid frustrating.


    Specificity.
    A CSS declaration that is more specific will take precedence over less specific ones
INLINE STYLE > Selectors // (>) = highest Specificity

i.e
1.ID selectors (most specific selector)
2.Class selectors
3.Type selectors


Specificity will only be taken into account when an element has multiple, conflicting declarations targeting it,sort of like a tie-breaker.
 An ID selector will always beat any number of class selectors.
 A class selector will always beat any number of type selectors, and a type selector will always beat any number of less specific selectors.
  When there is no declaration with a selector of higher specificity, a rule with a greater number of selectors of the same type will take precedence over another rule with fewer selectors of the same type.
Using a type selector, which has the lowest specificity value over  the universal selector (*) which has no specificity value.


Inheritance.
It's an css property that ,when applied to an element,are inherited by that element's descendants,even if we don't  explicitly write a rule for those descendants.
Typography-based properties (color, font-size, font-family, etc.) are usually inherited, while most other properties aren’t.

May 2, 10:55:55
 Thursday,2024

----------------INLINE_STYLES------------------
Although css is a different language than html,it's possible to write  html code using inline style.
To style an HTML element, we can add the style attribute directly to the opening tag. After we add the attribute, we can set it equal to the CSS style(s) we’d like applied to that element.

<p style='color: red;'>I'm learning to code!</p>
 
 The code in the example above demonstrates how to use inline styling. The paragraph element has a style attribute within its opening tag. Next, the style attribute is set equal to color: red;, which will set the color of the paragraph text to red within the browser.
If we'd like to add more than one style with inline styles, simply keep adding to the style attribute. Make sure to end the styles with a semicolon (;).

<p style='color: red; font-size: 20px;'>I'm learning to code!</p>

It’s important to know that inline styles are a quick way of directly styling an HTML element, but are rarely used when creating websites. But you may encounter circumstances where inline styling is necessary, so understanding how it works, and recognizing it in HTML code is good knowledge to have. Soon you’ll learn the proper way to add CSS code!