May 3, 11:11:55
Friday

--------------------Introduction to box model-----------------------
browser load html elements with defult position values.This often leads to an unexpected and unwanted user experience while limiting the views you can create.

 we  have used HTML and CSS and  have unknowingly seen aspects of the box model. For example, if we have set the background color of an element, we may have noticed that the color was applied not only to the area directly behind the element but also to the area to the right of the element. Also, if we have aligned text, we know it is aligned relative to something. 
 What is that something?

[All elements on a web page are interpreted by the browser as “living” inside of a box. This is what is meant by the box model.]
For example, when we change the background color of an element, we change the background color of its entire box.
In this lesson, you’ll learn about the following aspects of the box model:

The dimensions of an element’s box.
The borders of an element’s box.
The paddings of an element’s box.
The margins of an element’s box.



---------------Height and width-------------------
An element's content has two dimensions ; A HEIHT & WIDTH. 
By default,the dimensions of am html box are set to hold the raw contents of the box.
p {
  height: 80px;
  width: 240px;
}

In this example, the height and width of paragraph elements are set to 80 pixels and 240 pixels, respectively — the px in the code above stands for pixels.

Pixels allow you to set the exact size of an element’s box (width and height). When the width and height of an element are set in pixels, it will be the same size on all devices — an element that fills a laptop screen will overflow a mobile screen.




----------------------Borders--------------------------
A border is a line that surrounds an element, like a frame around a painting. Borders can be set with a specific width, style, and color:

width—The thickness of the border. A border’s thickness can be set in pixels or with one of the following keywords: thin, medium, or thick.
style—The design of the border. Web browsers can render any of 10 different styles. Some of these styles include: none, dotted, and solid.
color—The color of the border. Web browsers can render colors using a few different formats, including 140 built-in color keywords.

p {
  border: 3px solid coral;
}

In the example above, the border has a width of 3 pixels, a style of solid, and a color of coral. All three properties are set in one line of code.

The default border is medium none color, where color is the current color of the element. If width, style, or color are not set in the CSS file, the web browser assigns the default value for that property.

p.content-header {
  height: 80px;
  width: 240px;
  border: solid coral;
}

In this example, the border style is set to solid and the color is set to coral. The width is not set, so it defaults to medium.




May 4, 11:17:52 
Saturday.

------------------Borders radius---------------
Ever since we noticed that the border highlights the true shape of an element's box square.
we can modify the corners of the element's border box with the border-radius property

 div.container{
    border: 3px solid blue;
    border-radius:5px;
 } 
  The code in the example above will set four corners of the border to radius of 5pixel (i.e the same curvature thayt a circle with  a radius of 5px would have

[Note:we can create a border that is perfectly circle by first creating an element with the same width with the same width and height ,and then setting the radius equal to half the width of the box,which is 50%.]


div.container{
    height:60px;
    width:60px;
    border:30px solid blue ;
    border radius: 50%;
}
The code in the example above creates a <div> that is a perfect circle.




